Introducing Three New Serverless Inference Providers: Nebius, Novita, and Hyperbolic 🔥 (#2684)
huggingface/blog: new-inference-providers.md

---

> title: "Introducing Three New Serverless Inference Providers: Nebius, Novita, and Hyperbolic 🔥"

Reviewer: Just to keep a consistent naming here
```suggestion
title: "Introducing Three New Serverless Inference Providers: Nebius AI Studio, Novita, and Hyperbolic 🔥"
```

- Order providers by preference. This applies to the widget and code snippets in the model pages.

<img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/inference-providers/user-settings-updated.png" alt="Inference Providers"/>

2. As mentioned, there are two modes when calling Inference APIs: 
- Custom key (calls go directly to the inference provider, using your own API key of the corresponding inference provider)
- Routed by HF (in that case, you don't need a token from the provider, and the charges are applied directly to your HF account rather than the provider's account)

<img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/inference-providers/explainer.png" alt="Inference Providers"/>

3. Model pages showcase third-party inference providers (the ones that are compatible with the current model, sorted by user preference)

<img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/inference-providers/model-widget-updated.png" alt="Inference Providers"/>

### From the client SDKs

#### from Python, using huggingface_hub

> The following example shows how to use DeepSeek-R1 using Hyperbolic as the inference provider. You can use a [Hugging Face token](https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens) for automatic routing through Hugging Face, or your own Hyperbolic API key if you have one.

Reviewer 2: which URL @pcuenca ?

---
title: "Introducing Four New Serverless Inference Providers: Nebius, Novita, and Hyperbolic 🔥"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/inference-providers/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: sbrandeis
- user: kramp

> - user: julien-c

Reviewer 3: Maybe add 1 author from each provider as well?

---

We’re thrilled to announce the addition of three more outstanding serverless Inference Providers to the Hugging Face Hub: [Nebius AI Studio](https://nebius.com/), [Novita](https://novita.ai/), and [Hyperbolic](https://hyperbolic.xyz/). These providers join our growing ecosystem, enhancing the breadth and capabilities of serverless inference directly on the Hub’s model pages. They’re also seamlessly integrated into our client SDKs (for JS and Python), making it even easier to explore a wide variety of models with your preferred providers.

> These partners join the ranks of our existing providers, including Together AI, Sambanova, Replicate and Fireworks.ai.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These partners join the ranks of our existing providers, including Together AI, Sambanova, Replicate, fal and Fireworks.ai.
```

The new partners enable a swath of new models, find them out here:

> - [Nebius](https://huggingface.co/models?inference_provider=nebius&sort=trending)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Nebius AI Studio](https://huggingface.co/models?inference_provider=nebius&sort=trending)
```

> The new partners enable a swath of new models: DeepSeek-R1, Flux.1, and many others. Find them out here:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The new partners enable a swath of new models: DeepSeek-R1, Flux.1, and many others. Find all the models supported by them below:
```

- [Novita](https://huggingface.co/models?inference_provider=novita&sort=trending)
- [Hyperbolic](https://huggingface.co/models?inference_provider=hyperbolic&sort=trending)

We're quite excited to see what you'll build with these new providers!

## How it works

### In the website UI

1. In your user account settings, you are able to:

> - set your own API keys for the providers you’ve signed up with. Otherwise, you can still use them – your requests will be routed through HF.
> - order providers by preference. This applies to the widget and code snippets in the model pages.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Set your own API keys for the providers you’ve signed up with. If no custom key is set, your requests will be routed through HF.
- Order providers by preference. This applies to the widget and code snippets in the model pages.
```

> <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/inference-providers/user-settings.png" alt="Inference Providers"/>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/inference-providers/user-settings-updated.png" alt="Inference Providers"/>
```

uploaded a new screenshot with the mentioned providers. There is also BFL (which is not part of this release) but not problematic IMO

> 2. As we mentioned, there are two modes when calling Inference APIs: 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
2. As mentioned, there are two modes when calling Inference APIs: 
```

> - custom key (calls go directly to the inference provider, using your own API key of the corresponding inference provider); or

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- Custom key (calls go directly to the inference provider, using your own API key of the corresponding inference provider)
```

- Routed by HF (in that case, you don't need a token from the provider, and the charges are applied directly to your HF account rather than the provider's account)

<img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/inference-providers/explainer.png" alt="Inference Providers"/>

3. Model pages showcase third-party inference providers (the ones that are compatible with the current model, sorted by user preference)

> <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/inference-providers/model-widget.png" alt="Inference Providers"/>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/inference-providers/model-widget-updated.png" alt="Inference Providers"/>
```

same here. I took Deepseek example as all 3 new providers are supporting it https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/blob/main/inference-providers/model-widget-updated.png

### From the client SDKs

#### from Python, using huggingface_hub

> The following example shows how to use DeepSeek-R1 using Together AI as the inference provider. You can use a [Hugging Face token](https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens) for automatic routing through Hugging Face, or your own Together AI API key if you have one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to use DeepSeek-R1 using Hyperbolic as the inference provider. You can use a [Hugging Face token](https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens) for automatic routing through Hugging Face, or your own Hyperbolic API key if you have one.
```

> Install `huggingface_hub` version v0.28.0 or later ([release notes](https://github.com/huggingface/huggingface_hub/releases/tag/v0.28.0)).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Install `huggingface_hub` from source (see [instructions](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface_hub/installation#install-from-source)). Official support will be released soon in version v0.29.0.
```

`huggingface_hub` latest version is not release yet. To avoid blocking the announcement let's put the "install from source" instruction for now

```python
from huggingface_hub import InferenceClient

client = InferenceClient(
    provider="hyperbolic",
    api_key="xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
)

messages = [
    {
        "role": "user",
        "content": "What is the capital of France?"
    }
]

completion = client.chat.completions.create(
    model="deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1", 
    messages=messages, 
    max_tokens=500
)

print(completion.choices[0].message)
```

> **Note:** You can also use the OpenAI client library to call the Inference Providers too; see [here an example for DeepSeek model](https://huggingface.co/deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1?inference_provider=hyperbolic&language=python&inference_api=true).

Reviewer 3: This is actually not true because of the mapping issue (hyperbolic ID is not necessarily the same as ours). This is a known issue which we should fix on our side at some point.

For now, I'd just remove this line from the blog

```suggestion
```

And here's how to generate an image from a text prompt using [FLUX.1-dev](https://huggingface.co/black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-dev) running on [Nebius AI Studio](https://nebius.com):

```python
from huggingface_hub import InferenceClient

client = InferenceClient(
    provider="nebius",
    api_key="xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
)

# output is a PIL.Image object
image = client.text_to_image(
    "Bob Marley in the style of a painting by Johannes Vermeer",
    model="black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-schnell"
)
```

To move to a different provider, you can simply change the provider name, everything else stays the same:

```diff
from huggingface_hub import InferenceClient

client = InferenceClient(
-	provider="nebius",

> +	provider="hyperbolic",

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
+	provider="replicate",
```

(nit) in the new providers only `"nebius"` supports https://huggingface.co/black-forest-labs/FLUX.1-schnell so I'd just document with `"replicate"` in that case

	api_key="xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx"
)
```

#### from JS using @huggingface/inference

```js
import { HfInference } from "@huggingface/inference";

const client = new HfInference("xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx");

const chatCompletion = await client.chatCompletion({
	model: "deepseek-ai/DeepSeek-R1",
	messages: [
		{
			role: "user",
			content: "What is the capital of France?"
		}
	],

> 	provider: "together",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	provider: "novita",
```

	max_tokens: 500
});

console.log(chatCompletion.choices[0].message);
```

## Billing

> For direct requests, i.e. when you use the key from an inference provider, you are billed by the corresponding provider. For instance, if you use a Together AI key you're billed on your Together AI account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For direct requests, i.e. when you use the key from an inference provider, you are billed by the corresponding provider. For instance, if you use a Nebius AI Studio key you're billed on your Nebius AI Studio account.
```

---
title: "Introducing Three New Serverless Inference Providers: Hyperbolic, Nebius AI Studio, and Novita🔥"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/inference-providers/thumbnail-new.png
authors:
- user: vim-ary
  guest: true
  org: nebius
- user: yuchenj
  guest: true
  org: Hyperbolic
- user: yejingfu
  guest: true
  org: novita
- user: sbrandeis
- user: kramp
- user: julien-c
- user: reach-vb
- user: albertworks
- user: viktor-hu

> - user: cchevli

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- user: albertworks
  guest: true
  org: Hyperbolic
- user: viktor-hu
  guest: true
  org: novita
- user: cchevli
  guest: true
  org: Hyperbolic
```

add organization for them as well?

---

> title: "Introducing Four New Serverless Inference Providers: Nebius, Novita, and Hyperbolic 🔥"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: "Introducing Three New Serverless Inference Providers: Nebius, Novita, and Hyperbolic 🔥"
```

thumbnail: /blog/assets/inference-providers/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: sbrandeis
- user: kramp
- user: julien-c
---

> We’re thrilled to announce the addition of four more outstanding serverless Inference Providers to the Hugging Face Hub: Nebius, Novita, and Hyperbolic. These providers join our growing ecosystem, enhancing the breadth and capabilities of serverless inference directly on the Hub’s model pages. They’re also seamlessly integrated into our client SDKs (for JS and Python), making it even easier to explore a wide variety of models with your preferred providers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We’re thrilled to announce the addition of three more outstanding serverless Inference Providers to the Hugging Face Hub: Nebius, Novita, and Hyperbolic. These providers join our growing ecosystem, enhancing the breadth and capabilities of serverless inference directly on the Hub’s model pages. They’re also seamlessly integrated into our client SDKs (for JS and Python), making it even easier to explore a wide variety of models with your preferred providers.
```
